# Magickman

TODO: Write a gem description

## Installation

Add this line to your application's Gemfile:

    gem 'magickman'

And then execute:

    $ bundle

Or install it yourself as:

    $ gem install magickman
	 	=> install magickman library

	$ rails generate magickman [prefix] [resource_path]
		=> defaults: /magick, /public/images
		=> generate initializer to define the route, manually define styles (default: small, medium, large)
		=> controller to handle the requests
## Usage

## in templates :
Once installed, on-demand image processing can take place by using the special
helper tag: 'magick_tag'. It use is very similar to the standard 'image_tag' with 
the exception that it takes a 'format' argument. 

  <%= magick_tag "magickman.jpg", :medium  %>
  
  can be used wherever the following would work
  
  <%= image_tag "magickman.jpg" %>

magick_tag uses image_tag for the actual rendering and therefore supports all the options 
that image_tag does.

## image generation
New images are generated by the magickman controller after it has searched the resource 
paths for the requested image, always preferringto reuse existing images rather than 
generate new ones. If the requested images is not found, it tests the file name against
expected format names.  If is determineds to be a 'derivable image, it searches image 
resource paths for a potential source image.  If one is found, the appropriate 
transformation is applied and the resulitng image served.  That same image will be reused 
on subsequent requests.

Under the default configuration, all newly created files are put in public/.


## formats

Formats are specified in config/initializers/magickman.rb which should be
created with the generator at instllation.  They may be editted to provide 
a variety of custom formats according to your needs.

The defaults formats are 
  conf[:formats] = {
# non-cropping, best-fit
    :thumb =>  '-resize 100x100\>',
    :small =>  '-resize 400x400\>',
    :medium => '-resize 600x600\>',
    :large =>  '-resize 800x800\>'
  }


Formats are divided into 2 classes:  format string which begin with '-' are evaluated
as option string to be passed to imagemagick's convert program.  This is a powerful 
program which serves a wide variety of cases in a single command. 
 $ convert $formatstring $sourceimg $targetimg
For a format string :large =>"-resize 800x800\>", requesting image 'foo.large.jpg', the command will be
  $ convert -resize 800x800\> assets/images/foo.jpg public/foo.large.jpg

When the format string does not begin with '-', it is assumed to be a custom command.
For a format string :watermark =>"/usr/local/bin/watermark.rb"
 $ /usr/local/bin/watermark.rb assets/images/foo.jpg public/foo.large.jpg

Custom scripts can be in any language.  
They should take input and output files from the command line arguments, 
and exit with 0 upon success for maximum compatability. It is expected
that the output image has been created or at least exists before a custom script 
signals successful termination.

## Contributing

1. Fork it
2. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b my-new-feature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -am 'Add some feature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin my-new-feature`)
5. Create new Pull Request
